now it's just over a week since students
at Colombia University began their
protest demanding their University cut
ties with Israel and accept no further
funding from the Israeli government
students at Harvard Georgetown MIT and
most recently George Washington
University are demanding the same
protests have spread across the United
States to campuses in several different
States including Michigan Texas and
California hundreds of students are
gathering at George Washington
University in the US capital to show
solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza
students from Georgetown University have
marched across the US capital to the
encampment at George Washington
University across the United States
students are demanding their
universities cut Financial ties with
Israel and divest from companies they
say enable the war on
Gaza while correspondents are covering
the protests across the US Patty G ha is
standing by for us at George Washington
University in Washington DC but first to
John hendin who's at Columbia University
in New York and John I understand from
your early reporting that negotiations
are under way at the moment is there any
sense the university will capitulate or
compromise with the protester's
demands well the university is in a
tough spot as you said the students are
demanding divestment from anything that
enables the war in Gaza they also want
amnesty for the students who are
protesting but meanwhile billionaire
donors to these universities including
Robert Craft the owner of the New
England Patriots football team he said
he's going to stop investing and he's
not the only one and what that means is
that puts pressure on on the University
from the other side from people who want
these protests to stop and that presents
a really interesting scenario here
overnight somebody planted a sea of
Israeli Flags here those were not here
yesterday
and if you look up Beyond those flags
you see those blue seats those are going
to be filled for the graduation ceremony
here at Columbia on May 15th and if the
students haven't moved by then walk with
me this way and uh let me just show you
those seats are facing this encampment
about 8010 or so hundreds of students
who have occupied the space in the
center of the University right now
there's a midnight deadline tonight
that's about 4 uh am uh
GMT the from the University president to
leave this spot negotiations continue
though and we're told they'll probably
go on into the night so there might be
an extension of that date but nobody
really knows how this is going to end
and it's important at other universities
what happens here because this is where
it all started this is the epicenter it
was in 1968 during the Vietnam war
protests that University president lost
his job this one is hoping not to do the
same so uh there are negotiations going
on they're intense something might
happen by midnight and something might
not but these protests continue to grow
around the country and they're certainly
not stopping here where it all started
yeah important lessons perhaps from
history there many thanks for that John
let's go from New York now to Washington
DC and Patty hhan who's at George
Washington University in uh the US
capital so Patty I understand as we've
been reporting there that students from
two universities in the capital have now
joined forces George Washington
University and Georgetown how are they
getting their message
across well actually it's all eight
universities that are here uh in the
metropolitan area Maryland's included uh
galludet which is a university for
mostly a hearing impaired students so a
wide swath of different uh students here
but I want to just get out of the way
real quick and show you what's going on
there's uh this propped up this morning
because they said of what's happened in
New York that they wanted to send the
same message so they've got about a
dozen or so tents they've got a a tent
for a bathroom they've got food coming
in and they say that they are staying
now I want to introduce you to Dias
Meine she is one of the student
organizers and we know that you're
calling for the universities to just
invest from Israel and God knows these
universities have a lot of money what
are your other other demands well our
demands are obviously like you said
divest um from any companies that sell
weapons or um technology to the Zion
state but also to drop all charges um
against students who spoke up or
students who are pro Palestine many of
us uh in DMV SJP all across the DMV um
are facing repression
and charges and hearings from our
universities for simply protest Tes in
um even some students were docked and
put and their faces were put on trucks
um and not that that was done explicitly
by the university but the university
kind of manufactures consent for that
when they don't create a space where
students can speak freely and can
express their Pro Palestinian stance you
also want universities to not be in
Israel one more time universities out of
Israel universities out of Israel as
well as cut all um trips to isra
including Birthright trips and study
abroad programs um cut all ties
um speaking of being docks that's when
your identity is put on the internet and
you're harassed I noticed you're handing
out masks for our audience can you just
explain what it's been like to be a pro
Palestinian protester what are the risks
and why wear the masks yeah so not all
protesters wear masks but many do just
because of the heavy um targeting and
the heavy doxing like you said against
us um like I mentioned a student's face
was put on a truck you know multiple
students so this kind of heavy doxing is
very dangerous for us because zionists
are violent Zionism creates a violent
culture so we do it to protect ourselves
um of course especially at higher risk
actions like this one this is something
we've never done before we've never done
an encampment in at a DMV school um at
least within my lifetime so we want to
make sure that we are protected while
still um using our voices and expressing
our demands yine thank you so much for
speaking with aler English I appreciate
it have a good day uh one of the things
I should point out as the students do
expect that the police are going to
intervene today uh I've been told by the
police that they the district police are
in fact a Massie not far from here so
we're going to stay on the scene and
keep you posted but a lot of these
students say they're willing to get
arrested just like so many other
students so many hundreds of other
students across America all right Patty
many thanks for the update there Patty
hhan in Washington DC
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer